---
layout: post
title: TWTW| WiT learning program | Cohort-1
subtitle: The first week
bigimg: /img/path.jpg
tags: [learning, scholarship]
---

# The Week That Was | WiT Learning Program


The year 2018 has been full of surprises for me (plus some more to go, hopefully). It has been quite a journey over the past few months. In May, I got my first ever scholarship (and internship) offer from the Rails Girls Summer of Code. Mine was one of the only seven full-time sponsored teams selected from around the world. And last month, I was notified that I have been awarded the Nutanix Women in Technology scholarship 2018 in recognition of my initiatives and the leadership I have exhibited in the field of technology. I am the only scholar selected from India and one of the only six scholars from around the world.

And ever since then, there was absolutely no looking back.

I came across rethink foundation last year through one of my batchmates. I remember exploring one of the wiki collections they have made with regard to the scholarships for women. And, that was when I was awed by the level of efforts they have put into collecting such amazing information and bringing so many amazing women together on one platform. And then recently, somebody shared the link to the WiT learning program over Facebook. I could immediately sense how relevant this program could be to me, and decided to give it a shot.

And, Bingo! I got in. Well, honestly, it wasn’t that sudden. I first got an email from Arya that I have been shortlisted in the first round of the selection process and was invited for a short interview. And, I can tell you, my heart was pumping and I was dancing like a dork! I never saw it coming and this first call gave me a hope. It went on pretty smooth and I got a chance to interact with Arya. She’s a lovely personality. She made sure that we are comfortable during the interview and gave it a slightly breezy touch. And, a week or so later I got the much-awaited notification saying that I’m in.

Thence begins my WiT journey.

We are one week into the program and have already begun our fun-filled learning activities. The first activity was to record a short video talking about ourselves. Our education, interests, things we have worked on and accomplished so far, our aspirations, inspirations, and community involvement. Here is the link to my video. The current task includes creating a website of our own. Plus, many other fun-filled activities.

Looking forward to an amazing month ahead with all the Cohort-1 scholars and mentors and coaches.

This is just the beginning; there’s so much more to come.

> “Whether you think you can or whether you think you can’t, you’re right.” — Henry Ford.

Believe that you can, so that you will.

**#MyTimeToLead**
